Hi. This is Craig Golightly, and welcome to Understanding AWS Database Offerings.
We're going to look at the evolution of database types,
including some questions to ask to help you determine the best
database type to use for an application.
You'll then get an overview of AWS database offerings,
including available options within a database service,
unique features of the service, common use cases, and pitfalls to avoid.
When you hear the word database,
the first thing you likely think of is a relational
database with its row and column structure,
data types, keys,
constraints, and other familiar features that have been used for
decades in software system implementations.
Since relational databases were the dominant available technology for so long,
many applications had to force their design to fit within
the limits of relational database functionality, resulting
in some creative solutions.
Implementations that changed their design to fit the database
were often complex and brittle and had a hard time meeting
performance and stability requirements.
Maybe they got the job done, like cutting a board in two with a hammer,
but the result wasn't as good as using a purpose‑built tool, like a saw.
Today, you no longer have to design around a single relational database.
Now you have a variety of database types to choose from that are
designed to fit different scenarios of data type, volume,
speed, and size.
When deciding which database best fits your requirements,
looking at your actual data is a good place to start.
Is your data structured, unstructured or a mix of both?
Structured is typically something that could be broken up into columns of
properties, then those individual properties can be compared, sorted, and
searched. Unstructured is more freeform,
like the body of an email, images, and videos.
This type of data usually contains some structured metadata,
but the content itself can contain a wide variety of information that
is not easily broken down into rows and columns.
Many applications communicate using document data, like a JSON
document, where there is some structure,
but not something that would fit nicely into a relational database column.
Data size is another important attribute to consider when choosing a database.
How big are the items you deal with in a typical transaction? Are they
small like a text message or are they much larger,
like a book?
What about the overall size of your collection?
How fast is it growing?
You definitely don't want to run out of room in your database,
and different database types handle capacity and partitioning in different ways.
Data access is another key distinguisher when choosing a
database type. How often will the data be accessed?
Will you have frequent, real‑time updates and reads, daily
batch reports or are you just going to store things until
they're needed at some future point?
Will multiple users access and update the same data?
Does it need to be immediately consistent across all users of the system,
or is eventual consistency okay?
Does your solution need to be in a high‑availability configuration?
What are your uptime requirements?
Do you need a multi‑region deployment or are multiple
availability zones within a single region sufficient?
What about access control?
What granularity of security do you need?
Do you have specific encryption requirements? When it comes to
database design, just because you can do something in a particular
database type doesn't always mean you should. Maintaining a
balance of implementation speed, database performance,
cost, security, and complexity comes down to careful
consideration of your requirements,
then matching that with the database type or types
designed to meet those requirements.
Don't be surprised if you end up using multiple types
of databases in your implementation.
This often yields the best results due to different types of data,
access patterns, and latency requirements.
Let's start going through the different AWS database
offerings so that you can understand what is available and when you could use each type.